In the next lecture, you'll learn about how the OSPF cost metric works and how it's based on interface
bandwidth by default.
But before we get there, I want to explain how the 'bandwidth' command works, and what it does, and how it
relates to the 'speed' and the 'clock rate' command
because this is a common source of confusion.
Okay.
So, starting with the 'speed' command first. The rate that Ethernet interfaces physically transmit at is set
by the 'speed' command. GigabitEthernet interfaces transmit at 1000 megabits per second (Mbps) by default. A thousand
megabits per second is 1 gigabit per second, and FastEthernet interfaces transmit at 100 megabits per
second by default.
For example, if you use the 'speed 10' command on a FastEthernet interface and it supports it, it will
physically transmit at 10 megabits per second instead.
So if you do that, you need to make sure you manually set the speed on both sides of the link, or you're
going to have problems.
But when you do that, it changes the actual physical speed of the interface from 100 megabits per second
to 10 megabits per second.
So on Ethernet interfaces, it's the 'speed' command that you can use to change the default physical speed
of the interface.
Next command we have is the 'clock rate' command, and this works on Serial interfaces. Serial interfaces
used to be used very commonly on WAN links.
Not so much nowadays, but you do still find them.
The rate that Serial interfaces physically transmit at is set by the 'clock rate' command. Serial interfaces transmit
at 1.544 megabits per second by default. That is the speed of a T1 interface that used
to be commonly used in the United States. Cisco are a US company,
so that's why that is the default. If you use the
'clock rate 64000' command on a Serial interface, it will physically transmit at 64 kilobits per second (Kbps). So a Serial
interface transmits at 1.544 megabits per second by default, you can change that by using the
'clock rate' command to set a transmit rate in kilobits per second (Kbps).
And again, this will change the physical speed of the interface,
and again, it has to match on both sides of the link. Okay, so that was the 'speed' and the 'clock rate' commands,
which do change the physical transmission rate of interfaces,
next up,
we have got the 'bandwidth' command which does not. So interfaces also have a default bandwidth,
for example, 100 megabits per second on FastEthernet interfaces, 1.544 megabits per second
on a Serial interface, and you see that defaults to what the 'speed' and the
'clock rate'
defaulted too as well,
and the 'bandwidth' does usually match
physical transmission rate of the interface. It will do by default
and normally, as the administrator, we want to leave it at that as well. We want it to have it set to that.
The bandwidth setting on an interface does not affect the physical transmission rate, that is set by the 'speed'
or the 'clock rate'.
If you set a bandwidth of 50 megabits per second on a FastEthernet interface, it will still transmit
at 100 megabits per second.
Okay,
so if the bandwidth setting does not affect the actual physical speed of an interface, what does it do
then?
Well, it affects software policy on the router, such as which path will be selected by our routing protocols,
EIGRP or OSPF, or how much bandwidth will be guaranteed through a traffic type by QoS.
For example, if you've configured a QoS policy, which is going to guarantee your video traffic, a third
of the bandwidth on an interface. The way that you tell the router how much bandwidth is actually there is with
the 'bandwidth' command. So you can influence software policy by setting the bandwidth on an interface.
Like I said, you normally want the bandwidth to actually match the physical interface. On an Ethernet interface,
it's going to do that by default anyway. On a Serial interface,
it's going to default to 1.544 megabits per second always.
So if it's actually a 64 Kbps or a 128 Kbps interface, then you're definitely going to want to set the
'bandwidth' command on that interface to make sure that the bandwidth, which affects the software policy
is also matching the actual physical bandwidth on the interface.
Now, you don't have to have the matching. Sometimes, you want to override what would happen by default.
So you don't do this very commonly, but it is possible to set the bandwidth to be different than the
actual bandwidth on the physical interface if you want to influence software policy.
Okay,
so that is how the 'speed', the 'clock rate', and the 'bandwidth' commands work.
See you in the next lecture where we'll get into the OSPF cost metric.